---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E7: Class Retrospective"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
published: true
labels:
  - Retrospective
  - Labs
  - WODs
---
## Course Elements and Personal Engagement 

**What did you learn from creating a professional portfolio and using it in ITM 352?**
Creating a publicly accessible professional portfolio for this class was extremely helpful in gaining more knowledge on mark-up html. I love how I was able to personalize it to my own style and that’s what that assignment has done for me. It made it fun and brought that creative side out of me. It has also introduced me to using GitHub and familiarizing with myself how it works. It was interesting how we are able to integrate our resume and create blog entries as part of the home page.  One of the objectives in this assignment was to  be familiarize with popular web application technologies and frameworks (JSON, YAML, Markdown, HTML, CSS, Jekyll, GitHub and GitHuB pages, web servers) and that objective has been obtained!

**What did you gain from doing the WODs?**
The WODs were honestly challenging. It was definitely a task that exercised a wide range of tools to building my skills and confidence in this class. It was a season of progress. I haven’t honestly finished some of the WODs, but those that I have completed encouraged me that it takes practice and PRACTICE! I love how Professor Port used the WODs as an “athletic approach to software development”.  I respect that the timing of the WODs allows us to “tangibly measure” our improvement and implement them throughout our labs. 

**Were the quizzes helpful in preparing you for the labs?**
Yes, it was. The quizzes helped in preparing for the labs, especially the readings that were provided and powerpoints as well. It’s like a refresher from the readings and a knowledge check before diving into the labs for that day. 

**What did you learn from doing the labs?**
I learned quite a bit from doing labs such as knowing that being able to do what’s been assigned in each exercise and answering the questions makes you reflect a lot on the thought process of writing that line of code and certain errors. I appreciate how we are able to see the lab objectives so that I’m able to see if I had met it or not. I may not be able to complete some labs, but the ones that I did we’re very helpful. Doing each lab after the other worked built on what was done from the previous labs and I like how it would help me to progress on things that I wasn’t clear on such as doing the HTML forms, I would need to understand the logical requirements for an algorithm. 

**What did you learn from doing the essays?**
The essays helped me to reflect back on the WODs and how I’m able to see the progress I’ve made through trial and error. It gave me a sense of where I needed to work on such as correcting bad habits in implementing code and making sure I’m utilizing what I’ve learned. One example would be hard-coding, I would forget that I’m able to utilize conditional expressions and looping.

**What did you learn from doing Assignment 1 and Assignment 2?**
Doing assignment 1 and 2 tied all the topics we learned for our labs and WODs together. I’m glad that Prof. Port gave us days for workshops so that we could all have an opportunity to raise questions and concerns as we start it. Designing and building an e-store was an experience itself but that was where doing the labs and WODs extremely helped out a lot. I was able to implement what I’ve learned and what it takes to build a good user interface and process user input, validating information with different data types and incorporating user registration and identification.

## Challenges and Achievements
Honestly, this class itself has challenged me in everything: understanding new programming concepts, completing labs and WODs, web application development assignments. I’m aware of these challenges because I’ve done it more than a few times. It has brought me into accepting that I lacked time management skills, balancing and prioritizing what needed to be done. I had already thought of failure before it happened and I knew that having that type of pessimistic mindset paralyzed me. I'm grateful to have been given a chance to make up for a lot of missing assignments and WODs, more than I could ask for. Yet, I find myself going through the same pattern of procrastination again. Now I had wished I had started ahead of time because this class really does need your time and effort to understand the concepts, completing WODs and Labs, and fulfilling the assignments. It’s no joke when Prof. Port says to “get started on it!”.

Most especially when he would advise me to get on the assignment 1 and 2 ahead of time. I would like to share that this isn’t my first time in ITM352, it’s been a struggle. And It’s this year that I’ve come to accept that it is only me and my mind limiting myself–the fear of failure. I would exhaust myself with thoughts of how I would want to complete an assignment and it doesn’t go the way I wanted it to be. Then, life would happen and I would prioritize other things to avoid completing a lab or WOD even before I tried to work on it again.
 
For example, I’d attend class and follow along with the exercises for that Lab and get half or more of it done. Then, the rest are “do-it-yourself” exercises and that’s where I would fall short on. I would not even turn it in because I haven’t “fully completed” it and that’s already me discouraging and limiting myself. I would not have thought of the exercises I’ve already done and to just TURN IT IN! Therefore, it was a loss–I lost points for that lab/WOD. I could’ve had at least half of the credit instead of a 0 and it’s all because I wasn’t satisfied with the answers I already had in that lab. 

 Therefore, it was a pattern I had to break. Here comes assignment 1 and 2, I made sure that I had started on it. I love to figure out where I have gone wrong in developing the code and implementing it. I would spend half of the day researching and refreshing my browser just so I could get it right and working. I truly enjoy doing that even if I get frustrated when a certain block of code does not work. But, when I do get it, I feel accomplished! The downfall with that is when I focus so much on one task in the assignment, I tend to not have enough time to work on another requirement–I grow frustrated and I fall behind. This time around I just had to turn in what I already have–nevermind not having it “the way I envisioned it to be”--and just submit something!
So that was the journey for me into completing assignment 1 & 2. That is one of the things I felt accomplished with was to even get started on the assignments. I haven’t gotten this far in the previous semester. & it’s true these assignments take a lot of your time and dedication–that goes along with labs and WODs. When I say this class itself was a challenge, it definitely is, but I didn’t want to stop there. I continue to believe that I will pass this class and even if I may not pass again, I won’t stop taking it until I do. I am aware deep down that the MIS major is a field I want to grow in and it was definitely my motivation and passion that had died down from when I first took this class, but the more time I reflect on it, such as now, I might’ve forgotten along the way the reason why I chose this course and now I feel a stir, building up that passion, in me once again. 
	
 I may be slow progressing academically, but I won’t back down. I’m grateful that Prof. Port believed in me time and time again and never gave up on the faith of what I can accomplish in ITM352. They say that when you don’t excel on a course–time and time again–it’s possibly how the professor teaches, but I don’t agree with that, in my case, it was me and my limiting thoughts. Professor was helpful and encouraging in every way, seeing how he would answer students' questions in discord and take time out to go over stumbling blocks in our assignments in and outside of class–He wasn’t the problem. I believe it’s really on how I receive and perceive instruction and correction. Our perspective truly affects the way certain aspects of our life turn out –the way we manage and prioritize (time), our determination, our dedication/loyalty, our passion, our effort, our character, and for education, if we succeed in passing a course. 

## Skill Development and Application
The three skill levels outlined in the course (syntactic, algorithmic, application) is what defines, to me, progression and I love how it’s target is for skill development and application. That backs up what I’ve written earlier about what I’ve learned and experienced doing labs, WODs, and the assignments. The further we got into the semester, it’s evident if we lacked in developing and understanding the modules, if we were unable to process and apply (doing all the work) what was being taught throughout each class. 

When it got down to the application, I had to make sure I refreshed what I’ve learned so far and applied in the WODs and labs to be confident in applying and implementing it in the assignments. I couldn’t get far into “application” without practicing or figuring out (hands-on experience) the purpose of learning advanced HTML, CSS, Javascript. As I came across errors in building my e-store, I would research what/how/why/where the code would work and the more I would “crtl+c” in the terminal and refresh my browser to see a code not work over and over and then work, it gave me confidence in hopefully addressing similar technical issues I may face in MIS.

## Use of AI 
The use of AI was surely a big help especially when I wasn’t sure of the exercise that was given. When I wanted a simple explanation on a specific code especially on getting more clarity on variables/data types and using simple expressions such as when I needed help on starting assignment 1 on validating a purchase on the three conditions, I asked ChatGPT to generate a code and I would compare that code to an example of what we had done in the labs and see the similarities in functions and simplicity of how the code works. The code ChatGPT generates is usually more advanced than what is being taught in class. Therefore, I would make it make sense and figure out what each line of code was and how it works. If it was too complicated for my understanding, I will stick to the examples of what Prof. Port used in the workshops and build the block of code from there. I did a lot of that on Assignment 2, when I needed to build the login and registration forms (actually in every task). I’d be using ChatGPT  ineffectively, if I were to just copy and paste the code without going through each line and being aware of why it is positioned the way it is and how it functions especially when it comes to client-side vs. server-side processing. Other than that, I was able to see how there are many ways to build and implement a code to work for its purpose, but I needed to make sure that the code wasn’t redundant and unnecessary–it is definitely a process to make it make sense!

## Future Implications and Professional Growth
I enjoyed the experience of working with my classmates in building and figuring out why a code would work and why it doesn’t. I am able to engage in teaching and applying what I've learned in that specific exercise when we need to help each other out. I look forward to that when it comes to the professional field because then we grow together. I find myself being independent on working in labs and WODs, but there will come a time when we need the help of others, even if we go to ChatGPT for answers. We are able to address MIS problems practically. This gives me the vision of how it may be professionally–out on the field of MIS and becoming a technology leader.

The skills and knowledge gained from this class is what seems to be surface-level into programming and software development concepts because I remember Prof. Port would mention that this is a foundation for ITM353 and ITM354 as it is elaborated in the MIS Core. 
In ITM352, I have the opportunity to cultivate basic skills and strategies to become effective in different levels of planning, programming, designing, documenting, and testing web-based e-service applications. 

I’m excited that this class is my “first” journey into gaining more skills and knowledge into becoming an “MIS Specialist”.
Along with programing skills necessary for many MIS tasks such as database administration, management and reporting, networking, and more. Through it all, I'm looking forward to obtaining a deeper understanding of technology and the ability to apply technology to solve business problems, especially in thinking more logically and effectively, as I embark on this MIS journey.



